---
author: admin
comments: true
date: 2009-02-19 22:41:48
layout: post
slug: augmented-reality-killer-app
title: Augmented Reality Killer App
wordpress_id: 475
categories:
- Augmented Reality
---

I was just talking to my friend and fellow Metaverse visionary about Street Fighter IV and was about to joke with him that I preferred the "Augmented Reality" version of Street Fighter where everyone had health bars over their heads and actually got back up when you delivered a dragon uppercut. I decided to write this instead, since I needed a segue and the joke really wasn't that funny. So what about augmented reality? Is it the poor man's/quitter's version of that long promised and never delivered technology of the 90's?

[Augmented Reality](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Augmented_reality) will be the training wheels to true [Virtual Reality](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Virtual_reality) (but by then it won't be called Virtual Reality) and will be used ubiquitously alongside other technologies that we use today; in fact you probably already use examples of this tech: a car with a heads-up display to show you your speed, an mp3 player/ phone that rings through with a call when you are listening to music, or an iPhone showing you where your friends are in relationship to you. Some of these might be stretching the definition, but I think they are excellent examples of how this is creeping into our lives. The only thing that is keeping this technology from being more pervasive is the interface/display. With the recent popularity of the Wii everyone seems to have lost their compunctions against flailing around like an idiot, so the missing piece of the puzzle is the display... once you can the average person to put on some goggles or a visor, there's no turning back. Then we can have the applications that would really make Augmented Reality actually useful, with overlaid data on everday items: addresses on buldings you can actually see, retail product information without going home and googling it, expiration dates on your food without touching that moldy block of cheese, or looking out your window and getting the weather report for the next 24 hours.

So what will be the killer app that gets everyone on board? I think you will see this first adopted in two places... the workplace and home entertainment systems. Graphics are still in that incubation phase where people get creeped out by things looking "almost" real, but comfortable when it's on their TV or computer screen. In the workplace it will be used to increase your monitor space... so you will have your laptop and mouse (real) in front of you, but you might have 1 (virtual) insanely wide monitor or 5 (virtual) monitors layered over your vision, that you can look from each by turning your head. Software already renders what you see on these kind of displays so it could be done with today's graphics processors. I think collaboratively you could have something like this with a representation of your co-worker next to you "looking" at the same workspace. Remember all that talk about holographic televisions? Does anyone even talk about holograms anymore? In the home entertainment venue you would have a display layered over your vision of a movie screen or an obscenely large flatscreen. A family would see the same display, in the same physical location in the house. I won't buy a massive flat panel TV because of the high price tag, but I would buy a pair of goggles for $400 if I could have a virtual movie screen in my back yard. Now, a point I will make often is that anyone can make predictions about "the future" but I think the real challenge is to put an expiration date on those predictions. It doesn't take a stroke of genius to say that people will have flying cars someday or that I can talk to Dick Tracy over my wrist watch. I think you will see a commercially viable version of what I am talking about within 5 years. Commercially viable, but probably not socially acceptable in terms of playing "Street Fighter V: Augmented Reality Tournament" in my back yard with my shirt off, unfortunately. Too bad for the neighbors; that's what curtains are for.
