---
author: admin
comments: true
date: 2009-02-20 22:36:19
layout: post
slug: information-age-bottleneck-part-i
title: 'Information Age Bottleneck: Part I'
wordpress_id: 463
---

After digging through my digital archives, I found a couple of Flash applications that I made about 5 years back. I'd like to show them off not only because they are masterpieces (wink) but because they illustrate examples of what "should" be happening today in 2009, right in the thick of the Information Age. Information Age? You can read more about it [here](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Information_Age). The entry doesn't really explain the relevance of the Information Age to the advancement of civilization; you need to look at it in contrast with previous "Ages". The Iron Age was defined by man's increasingly skilled usage of iron which allowed for complicated tools for use in agriculture, construction and protection, as well as the ability to harness stronger sources of kinetic and mechanical energy. The industrial age allowed for standardization and mass production of those same tools which led to more sustainable technologies because of interchangeable parts, repeatable processes, as well as to build an infrastructure for the rapid delivery or long-term storage of food and manufactured goods. I knew I didn't waste my time with all those archaeology and anthropology classes.

Up until recently, the Information Age was a logical progression in the sense that the "Information" is really about what we are producing, delivering and storing. The distinguishing feature is that the Information is available on demand. Telegrams over wire and mail over railway were around over 150 years ago, but information today can be pushed (email) or pulled (web media) instantaneously. So what? Storing the same data in a computer that previously existed in a filing cabinet does not constitute a technological leap by mankind. It is the same data, but kept in the basement instead of in your desk drawer. It is how that data is consumed and related to other data that is the defining concept of the Information Age. 1970 is the birth date of the relational database (as well as the start of the Information age according to some) and represents a defining moment in how we started relating data to other data. 40 years later, we are just starting to do this again, but in the sense of combining immense amounts of abstracted forms of data, maintained by massive amounts of people. I would argue that the Information Age didn’t really have a defined distinction from any other “Age” until about 5 years ago. Think I’m wrong?

How many of you would have thought it was weird if you found a piece of paper at a person’s house with a list of all of their friends on it, with a list under each person of all their friends (Facebook.com). What about knowing where your friends are exactly, at any time (GPS Tracking on Google Maps)? Would you have called UPS 10 years ago, a couple times each day to ask where your package is, the day after you ordered it (ups.com)? You might say all these things are just information like any other tidbit, but they are all examples of Metadata (data about data), not the information themselves. Back to the flash applications.

I made these a while back to showcase what flash could do for a large martial arts publication company. [The first one](/resources/jb5000/gates_master.swf) distills (and quite possibly oversimplifies) a Qigong technique called 4 Gates Breathing/Grand Circulation (circa 500ad). This exercise alone has entire books dedicated to it. [The second](/resources/jb5000/taijisymbol2.5.swf) is a training aid for Taiji Symbol Training, used to develop coiling and wrapping skill in the martial art of Taijiquan (circa ~1700ad). Two items that are impossibly old, now presented as a flash application: coupling data with visual representations and animations, creating an entirely new piece of information. This example might seem eclectic, but it is so entirely because of the fact that information like this was kept secret, passed from teacher to trusted student. How many other cultural items like this are there that only a few hundred people possess? So why isn’t anyone doing this (is anyone doing this)? People (Subject Matter Experts) could use their specialized knowledge to present their experience in an entirely new way that wasn’t possible even 20 years ago.

Unfortunately, at this point in time, there really isn’t any way of protecting your intellectual property on the internet, unless you can afford a lawyer. To complicate matters further, if you are re-hashing someone else’s data and presenting it in a way that THEY were not, you will likely find yourself the target of a lawsuit, and your ideas are taken down or worse, taken possession of. This whole issue of Digital Rights Management (DRM) is really the bottleneck for further progress in creating an information-based economy that developed nations could be moving towards. Imagine everyone on YouTube making money every time their video is watched, without advertisements. The only people making money off of information consumption currently are the ISP’s, which is like a Public Utilities company getting all the money when a restaurant sells a bowl of soup or a bourbon on the rocks, because they both use water. So what is the solution? I’m glad you asked, but now that the stage is set, I will address that in Part II.
